So in the last lecture, we had a look at media queries and how they can help you style the things, the
elements of your application in a way they look good on all kinds of devices.
Now another thing I want to have a look at is images.
Now we have an image here and on a mobile device, that looks good, on a bigger screen though you see it
doesn't look as good,
we could use a bigger image here.
Now that is something we can also fix with responsive design,
however not mainly with CSS but instead by picking the right image for the right job.
For that, let's inspect our images folder, you might have noticed that we have more than one image. Right
now in our main index.html file, we use the main image here which is this file.
We do have two other files too,
we have a large version which is 1200x457,
the main image itself is 900x343 and we have a small version.
Now maybe we could fetch the small version on small devices,
the other one are medium sized ones and the big one on very big devices, big screens, so that we not only
display a big and good looking
image on all device screens but that we also have to download less on smaller devices because there's
no reason to serve a big image
if we only have a small device. We can do this and there actually are two tools which allow you to do
this
when it comes to responsive images. You have the picture element and I won't dive into this in this course,
you'll find a link to a detailed article at the end of this course module
though. The picture element is mostly for choosing different images,
so basically images showing different things depending on device sizes, so that you have one image focusing
on a head, on a small device, whereas on a big device you show a whole group of people for example.
Now that's not what I want to do here,
I want to use one and the same image but I want to use a different version
file size density of that image for different screen resolutions.
Now for that on the normal image tag, we can add a special attribute and that is the source set attribute.
Now this is not supported by all browsers
but the good thing is browsers which don't support it just fallback to the normal source. Regarding
browser support,
it's not that bad though. If we check
caniuse,
you'll see that 86% of browsers support source set, it's only the Internet Explorer and Edge
which is not supporting it which of course is an issue
but again it will fallback to the normal source attribute then, so it will still work, your page will
still work,
it's just not as optimized as possible
but what can you do?
This is also bound to become better though, in the next version of Edge this will be supported for example.
So let's go back to our application and let's add something to source set,
what do we add here?
Well we add a set of images we want to provide to the browser and we'll add a hint about the size of
the image so that the browser knows which one to pick because of course it doesn't download all the
images and look at them because that would kind of defeat the purpose of using an attributes which makes
sure the browser only downloads what it needs.
So let's specify a path, maybe to the big image,
so src/images and then main-image/lg.jpg is my big image.
Now this is one possible image we present to the browser
now, we also need to inform him when to use this image and for that, you provide a second argument simply
separated by a whitespace which should be the width of that image.
So if we inspect that large image, we see it's 1200,
so let's use that as a value, 1200 and you add a w for width. So this gives the browser
the hint that you have an image which has a width of 1200
and if we have a screen which would take user or would take advantage of such an image,
we'll use that.
Now I'll also add a second image,
you separate them with commas and you can even put it into a new line here.
So you can put the next image into a new line and say OK, we also have source images and then we have
the main-image.jpg,
so the one we're already pointing to, you still have to add it here
and this is mostly good for,
let's have a look,
has a width of 900,
so for the device screens which are around this area.
So let's add this too.
Now finally let's add the last one,
let's also add src/images/main-image-sm for small and this has a width of 480,
so let's use that whitespace 480w.
So if we go back to the application, clear the storage and reload our page here, we should already see that
if we visit the network, we have the main image still
but if I increase this so that we have a bigger screen, you'll see that down there, the main image large
was downloaded
and indeed, this looks much better than before now, it's sharper,
it takes up more width, it's a better image.
On the other end if I shrink this and make it really small, you will see that we indeed will download a different
image if I refresh the page now and fetch the main-image-small here,
so we're downloading this on a small screen initially which of course is also smaller from a file size
perspective.
So this is using responsive images now.
Now how do responsive images work together with caching?
I want a mobile device here and on the iPhone, it actually picks the main image due to the density
of the screen.
So let me switch to an older phone so that we take the small image here, now we download main image small
and let's go in offline mode.
So I'll tick offline here and reload this page.
Now you see this still works here because obviously if we have a look at the network there, we still load
the small image but we can load this because it's in our cache.
If we have a our look at our cache in the application, at the dynamic cache,
it was added there,
here are the different images large and small.
The thing just is, if I clear the storage and I somehow go into a screen where I don't pre-fetch this,
so now I reload this and go online again, reload this,
now if I inspect my cache, you will see that in the dynamic cache which exists
once I reload again, that we don't have the small image in there, we have the large one because we have a large
screen but not the small one.
Now if I go offline and I switch to a smaller screen and I reload, you'll see the image is missing.
Now that's a tradeoff we kind of have to accept, it is cached dynamically if
we've been there,
so that's a good thing.
If we visit this for the first time and it wasn't cached before, we don't have it in the cache. Now we
could add all these images to our initial cache here, to the cache we precache
but you have to be careful with that.
We do have one image in there for medium sized screens which should do for a lot of devices,
this is why I chose this, for the Edge cases and the same is true for large screens
obviously, we don't have it precached.
Again you could add it here but you probably don't want to load your cache with a lot of images because
you might use more than one in your application and then you shouldn't cache all versions of all images
here, that will quickly bloat your cache.
We have to live with not having a image for this size then, not having an image there,
unfortunately it doesn't fallback to the default source which would be there,
that would be the best case. We have to live with that but it is added dynamically in our solution, in solutions
where you don't even do that,
you will not have the image available, you might use some Javascript
then of course to replace it if you know you are offline to then set the source to an image you have
in cache, that would be a workaround.
This in general, using source set is a nice workaround or a nice way of using images in a responsive
way so that you load the right image for the right device size.